---
title: "KNIT 5: A FABRIC Community Workshop"
path: /events/2022-knit-5-event
date: 2022-09-22
display_date: September 20-22, 2022
location: Northwestern University, Wieboldt Hall, 340 East Superior Street, Chicago, IL 60611 (Please note this is not the Evanston campus)
url: https://apps2.research.unc.edu/events/index.cfm?event=events.go&key=B347
tags: ["FABRIC", "KNIT", "Workshop"]
fabricHosted: true
presenter: Anita Nikolich, Ilya Baldin, Paul Ruth, KC Wang
presentation_link: ""
seo:
  title: "KNIT 5: A FABRIC Community Workshop"
  description: "We are delighted to announce the dates for the first-ever in-person FABRIC Community Workshop, which will take place from September 20-22, 2022 in Chicago, IL. KNIT 5 will be hosted by Northwestern University."
  keywords: ["FABRIC", "KNIT", "Workshop"]
---

KNIT 5, the first-ever in-person FABRIC Community Workshop will take place from September 20-22, 2022 in Chicago, IL. KNIT 5 will be hosted by Northwestern University.

FABRIC, an international infrastructure that enables cutting-edge experimentation and research at-scale, is up and running. The FABRIC team is excited to share updates from the platform, experimenters, and wider community.

We'll kick off the workshop on September 20 with small-group, hands-on FABRIC tutorial sessions and advanced training topics, a tour of FABRIC facility partner STARLIGHT, and a reception event. From September 21-22, the FABRIC team will provide new project highlights, present demos on the platform, and discuss increased capabilities through integration with testbeds such as Chameleon, PAWR, and CloudLab. Early experimenters across multiple science domains will present compelling experiments and share how FABRIC can support researchers across areas such as networking, cybersecurity, distributed computing, storage, virtual reality, 5G, machine learning, and science applications. Attendees will get the chance to explore the FABRIC portal, connect with the FABRIC community, and provide feedback to the FABRIC team.

### In-Person Registration & Session Sign-ups

Our team is excited to bring the FABRIC Community together for the first time in-person since the start of the project in 2019. Hosting KNIT 5 in-person gives us the opportunity to offer small group beginner and advanced topics tutorials, one-on-one time to provide coaching and advice from FABRIC leadership, and a reception where experimenters will present demos and posters. If you’re planning to become an early user of FABRIC and utilize the platform to experiment in the near future, we highly encourage you to attend.

We urge you to [register](https://apps2.research.unc.edu/events/index.cfm?event=events.go&key=B347) as soon as possible if you would like to attend, as space will be limited. Registration closes on September 1. Our team is working on measures to ensure the safety of all in-person participants and will share additional details in the coming weeks. Once you register, you will be sent the Session Sign-up form. We look forward to seeing you there!

### Streaming Pass

However, we understand that not everyone can join us, due to company travel restrictions, health concerns, or other reasons. For these members of our community, we are delighted to offer a [KNIT 5 STREAMING PASS](http://apps2.research.unc.edu/events/index.cfm?event=events.go&key=B496). Available for daily purchase, the Streaming Pass offers attendees limited access to the virtual aspects of the KNIT 5 Workshop.

The Streaming Pass will be available for purchase for events taking place September 21-22; the Streaming Pass is not available for the September 20 hands-on FABRIC tutorial sessions, advanced training topics, FABRIC facility partner STARLIGHT tour or the FABRIC evening demo on September 21.

### Hotel Information

Interested in booking with our group rate? Our team has reserved a hotel block at [W Chicago - LAKESHORE](https://www.google.com/maps/place/W+Chicago+-+Lakeshore/@41.8939186,-87.6153661,17z/): the only hotel in Chicago that directly overlooks Lake Michigan!

- The last day to book is Monday, September 5, 2022.
- The rate is $218 USD per night + taxes and fees. THIS IS A SAVINGS OF $75 - $125 instead of booking directly with the hotel.
- Our room block begins the evening of Monday, Sept. 19 through check-out on Friday, Sept. 23.
- Book your group rate for the University of North Carolina Room Block [here](https://www.marriott.com/events/start.mi?id=1651513173333&key=GRP).

_\*Please note there’s a second hotel named W Chicago - City Center located on 72 W Adams St. We do NOT have a room block at this hotel._

### Parking Information

Parking near Wieboldt Hall and the W Lakeshore? We’re referring everyone in need of parking for the workshop to [SPOT HERO](https://spothero.com/). How does this website/app work? SpotHero is a parking reservation service that lets you find and reserve hourly, monthly, airport, and event parking at thousands of lots and garages across North America. When you book with them you'll get an instant prepaid parking reservation. They operate in 30+ major cities in the US and Canada, and they've helped park 40 million cars since 2011.

### Agenda

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQQFxN58qvOwI5faqbkBa-UfG3FkvgUeRhkcnp3XXwnER-bPSUE4TaGKQCzySYFR8fXe1WoRJUuhvDj/pub?embedded=true" height="2650" width="800"></iframe>
