src/data/events/2022-04-28_knit-webinar-2022.md, before:

---
title: "KNIT Spring '22 Webinar"
path: /events/knit-webinar-2022
date: 2022-04-28
display_date: April 28, 2022
location: Virtual
url:
tags: ["KNIT", "Webinar", "FABRIC"]
fabricHosted: false
presenter: Anita Nikolich, Ilya Baldin, Paul Ruth
presentation_link: ""
seo:
  title: "KNIT Spring '22 Webinar"
  description: The FABRIC testbed leadership team will use the hour to provide site installation status updates, share new features on the testbed, and introduce tutorial sessions and videos. Additionally, the lead team will discuss how the platform enables novel approaches to distributed and network systems control and management by integrating artificial intelligence (AI), and how users can utilize the AI capabilities in their proposals, papers, workshops and more.
  keywords: ["KNIT", "Webinar", "FABRIC"]
---

The FABRIC testbed leadership team will use the hour to provide site installation status updates, share new features on the testbed, and introduce tutorial sessions and videos. Additionally, the lead team will discuss how the platform enables novel approaches to distributed and network systems control and management by integrating artificial intelligence (AI), and how users can utilize the AI capabilities in their proposals, papers, workshops and more.

Commit message:

Content/event updates (#208)
* #206: updated KNIT Spring '22 Webinar

* #207: added new funding opportunity

* #201&#202: added events for fabric tutorial webinar April'22 & May'22

* #203 & #204 & #205: added fabric tutorial events for June, July and August

src/data/events/2022-04-28_knit-webinar-2022.md, after:

---
title: "KNIT Spring '22 Webinar"
path: /events/knit-webinar-2022
date: 2022-04-28
display_date: April 28, 2022
location: Virtual
url: https://renci.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJYkcuipqTgiHtEfEzmV4TEA02d9SAfxPGyI
tags: ["KNIT", "Webinar", "FABRIC"]
fabricHosted: true
presenter: Anita Nikolich, Ilya Baldin, Paul Ruth
presentation_link: ""
seo:
  title: "KNIT Spring '22 Webinar"
  description: The FABRIC testbed leadership team will use the hour to provide site installation status updates, share new features on the testbed, and introduce tutorial sessions and videos.
  keywords: ["KNIT", "Webinar", "FABRIC"]
---

![KNIT Spring '22 Webinar](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/68300939/164275435-7c286243-78ac-46b5-aaf0-ec2b5368381f.png)

The FABRIC testbed leadership team will use the hour to provide site installation status updates, share new features on the testbed, and introduce tutorial sessions and videos. Additionally, the team will discuss how the platform enables novel approaches to distributed and network systems control and management by integrating artificial intelligence (AI), and how users can utilize the AI capabilities in their proposals, papers, workshops and more.

The webinar will take place at 4 PM ET.
