---
title: Supercomputing 2023
path: /events/sc23
date: 2023-11-14
display_date: November 14, 2023
location: Denver, CO
url: https://sc23.supercomputing.org/
tags: ["Supercomputing"]
fabricHosted: false
presenter: Ilya Baldin; Paul Ruth; Anita Nikolich; Jim Griffioen; Inder Monga; Bryttany Todd
presentation_link: ""
seo:
  title: Supercomputing 2023
  description: "Those interested in learning more about FABRIC at Supercomputing 2023 will be able to visit RENCI's in-person booth (#1663) and learn about updates to the project. "
  keywords: ["Supercomputing"]
---

Our world is changing rapidly. Complex challenges are suddenly arising alongside an urgent demand for answers. Leveraging HPC, skilled minds employ innovative technologies to respond to the call — driven by data, simulating possibilities, and unlocking new solutions. By harnessing the power of HPC, the SC community is unleashing a deeper understanding of our world at an unprecedented pace.

Those interested in learning more about FABRIC at Supercomputing 2023 will be able to visit RENCI's in-person booth (#1663) and learn about updates to the project. FABRIC leadership team members Ilya Baldin and Paul Ruth will present a talk at the booth at the below times:

- Tuesday, November 14 at 11:00 AM MT
- Wednesday, November 15 at 2:00 PM MT
- Thursday, November 16 at 10:30 AM MT

Each of the talks is followed by a 30 minute office hours at the RENCI booth for anyone wanting a one-on-one discussion or help with account setup. In addition there will be ACCESS/FABRIC office hours at the UKY booth (#1246) on November 15, from 10:30 - 11:30 AM MT.

FABRIC will be represented at the [2023 INDIS workshop Technical Session](https://scinet.supercomputing.org/community/indis/previous-editions/sc23-indis/program/) on Tuesday November 14 at 2 PM MT at the SCinet Theater on the exhibit floor. PI Ilya Baldin will talk about FABRIC as part of the panel and a number of FABRIC users will show demos of their FABRIC experiments.

In conjunction with ESnet and IIT, the FABRIC team will host an FPGA drop-in at the RENCI booth. We encourage those interested in running FPGA-based experiments on FABRIC to stop-by for a discussion during the block. ESnet smartNIC, a fully open source [P4 + FPGA development environment](https://github.com/esnet/esnet-smartnic-hw) for FABRIC developers is fully deployed in the NSF FABRIC testbed. If you are at SC23 in Denver, join us at the RENCI booth on Wednesday November 15 at 11:00 AM MT to meet the developers, ask questions and get a 1:1 explanation of how to do P4 development on FABRIC, without any prior FPGA design experience. We will cover everything from “hello world” tutorials, to deep dives on the Verilog architecture, DPDK and other driver software.

Additionally, the Ecosystem for Research Networking (ERN) will present the talk, “Exploring Democratized Access to Research Instruments and FABRIC” on Wednesday, November 15 at 4 PM MT at the RENCI booth.

Finally, on Thursday, November 16 at 1:30 PM MT, FABRIC PI Ilya Baldin will be part of a panel called, [“Unleashing the Power within Data Democratization: Needs, Challenges, and Opportunities”](https://sc23.conference-program.com/presentation/?id=pan111&sess=sess194) in Room 205 - 207.

Beyond Booth #1663, we’re excited to announce that there will be FABRIC facility ports at SCinet at several booths this year, including:

- Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center | Booth #1203
- StarLight | Booth #1281
- California Institute of Technology / CACR | Booth #1255
